CSC-26: Timestamping Private Key Protection (#34)
cabforum/code-signing: docs/CSBR.md

#### 6.2.7.2 Private key storage for Timestamp Authorities

> Effective April 15, 2025, a Timestamp Authority MUST protect Private Keys associated with its Root CA certificates and Subordinate CA certificates containing the "Time Stamping" EKU in offline Hardware Crypto Module conforming to FIPS 140-2 level 3, Common Criteria EAL 4+ (ALC_FLR.2), or higher. The Timestamp Authority MUST protect its signing operations in accordance with the CA/Browser Forum's Network and Certificate System Security Requirements.

Reviewer: I think it's preferable to re-use existing requirements for Root keys here, as that will provide better clarity on the expectations. Specifically, I'm concerned that the term "offline" is not specific.

What do you think about stating that the Timestamp CA Private Key must be stored in a "Root CA System" (a defined term in the NSRs)?

Reviewer: I agree that there's a potential for misalignment due to the defined term explicitly speaking to Root key material, whereas we're dealing with Timestamping SubCA key material here.

I think your amended language is spot on, but needs a "a" before "Hardware Crypto Module". I'd suggest the edit myself, but apparently you can't suggest changes to suggestions (preventing Suggestion Inception, or something).

Author: Thanks for spotting the a, as well as the other suggestions! I've updated the previous suggestion and will commit.

#### 6.2.7.2 Private key storage for Timestamp Authorities

> Effective April 15, 2025, a Timestamp Authority MUST protect Private Keys associated with its Root CA certificates and Subordinate CA certificates containing the "Time Stamping" EKU in a Hardware Crypto Module conforming to FIPS 140-2 level 3, Common Criteria EAL 4+ (ALC_FLR.2), or higher, maintained in a High Security Zone and in an offline state or air-gapped from all other networks. The Timestamp Authority MUST protect its signing operations in accordance with the CA/Browser Forum's Network and Certificate System Security Requirements.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Effective April 15, 2025, a Timestamp Authority MUST protect Private Keys associated with its Root CA certificates and Subordinate CA certificates containing the `id-kp-timeStamping` KeyPurposeId in the `extKeyUsage` extension (per section 7.1.2.2 g), in a Hardware Crypto Module conforming to the requirements specified in [section 6.2.7.1](#6271-private-key-storage-for-CA-keys), maintained in a High Security Zone and in an offline state or air-gapped from all other networks.

```

We do not need to repeat that NetSec requirements are applicable to Time-stamping Authorities because it is already stated in section 6.7.

#### 6.2.7.2 Private key storage for Timestamp Authorities

> Effective April 15, 2025, a Timestamp Authority MUST protect Private Keys associated with its Root CA certificates and new Subordinate CA certificates with a validity period of greater than 72 months containing the `id-kp-timeStamping` KeyPurposeId in the `extKeyUsage` extension (per section 7.1.2.2 g), in a Hardware Crypto Module conforming to the requirements specified in [Section 6.2.7.1](#6271-private-key-storage-for-CA-keys), maintained in a High Security Zone and in an offline state or air-gapped from all other networks.

Author: ```suggestion
Effective April 15, 2025, a Timestamp Authority MUST generate and protect Private Keys associated with its Root CA certificates and new Subordinate CA certificates with a validity period of greater than 72 months containing the `id-kp-timeStamping` KeyPurposeId in the `extKeyUsage` extension (per section 7.1.2.2 g), in a Hardware Crypto Module conforming to the requirements specified in [Section 6.2.7.1](#6271-private-key-storage-for-CA-keys), maintained in a High Security Zone and in an offline state or air-gapped from all other networks.

```

Author: As discussed during the CSWG call, we need to add language to not allow issuance of timestamp certificates by online subcas after a certain date.

The validity period for a Code Signing Certificate issued to a Subscriber or Signing Service MUST NOT exceed 39 months.

The Timestamp Certificate validity period MUST NOT exceed 135 months. The Timestamp Certificate Key Pair MUST meet the requirements in [Section 6.1.5](#615-key-sizes). The Timestamp Certificate Private Key usage period is no greater than 15 months from the date of Timestamp Certificate issuance. 

> Effective April 15, 2025, Private Keys associated with Timestamp Certificates issued for greater than 15 months MUST be removed from online Hardware Crypto Module with 18 months from date of Timestamp Certificate issuance. For Timestamp Certificates issued on or after June 1, 2024, the CA SHALL log the removal of the Private Key from the Hardware Crypto Module through means of a key destruction ceremony performed by the CA and witnessed and signed-off by at least two Trusted Roles. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Effective April 15, 2025, Private Keys associated with Timestamp Certificates issued for greater than 15 months MUST be removed from the Hardware Crypto Module protecting the Private Key within 18 months after issuance of the Timestamp Certificate. For Timestamp Certificates issued on or after June 1, 2024, the CA SHALL log the removal of the Private Key from the Hardware Crypto Module through means of a key destruction ceremony performed by the CA and witnessed and signed-off by at least two Trusted Roles. 

```

> The CA MAY keep existing backup sets containing the Private Key. In case of a Key Recovery event, the CA SHALL NOT restore Private Keys associated with Timestamp Certificates, if the Timestamp Certificate was issued more than 15 months ago.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The CA MAY maintain existing backup sets containing the Private Key corresponding to a Timestamp Certificate. The CA MUST NOT restore the Private Key corresponding to a Timestamp Certificate contained within the backup if the Timestamp Certificate was issued more than 15 months prior to restoration of the backup.
```

The validity period for a Code Signing Certificate issued to a Subscriber or Signing Service MUST NOT exceed 39 months.

> The Timestamp Certificate validity period MUST NOT exceed 135 months. The Timestamp Certificate Key Pair MUST meet the requirements in [Section 6.1.5](#615-key-sizes). The Timestamp Certificate Private Key usage period is no greater than 15 months from the date of Timestamp Certificate issuance. Private Keys associated with Timestamp Certificates issued for greater than 15 months MUST be removed from online Hardware Crypto Module with 18 months from date of Timestamp Certificate issuance. The CA SHALL log the removal of the Private Key from the Hardware Crypto Module through means of a key destruction ceremony performed by the CA and witnessed and signed-off by at least two Trusted Roles. 

Author: @ianjmcm I wonder if that should be a topic of discussion at the F2F, along with effective dates for private key removal and Offline SubCAs

> The Timestamp Certificate validity period MUST NOT exceed 135 months. The Timestamp Certificate Key Pair MUST meet the requirements in [Section 6.1.5](#615-key-sizes). The Timestamp Certificate Private Key usage period is no greater than 15 months from the date of Timestamp Certificate issuance. Private Keys associated with Timestamp Certificates issued for greater than 15 months MUST be removed from online Hardware Crypto Module with 18 months from date of Timestamp Certificate issuance. The CA SHALL log the removal of the Private Key from the Hardware Crypto Module through means of a key destruction ceremony performed by the CA and witnessed and signed-off by at least two Trusted Roles. 

Reviewer 3: @XolphinMartijn, that is a great idea. We can make it a priority to nail those details down to move this change forward.

> The Timestamp Certificate validity period MUST NOT exceed 135 months. The Timestamp Certificate Key Pair MUST meet the requirements in [Section 6.1.5](#615-key-sizes). The Timestamp Certificate Private Key usage period is no greater than 15 months from the date of Timestamp Certificate issuance. Private Keys associated with Timestamp Certificates issued for greater than 15 months MUST be removed from online Hardware Crypto Module with 18 months from date of Timestamp Certificate issuance. The CA SHALL log the removal of the Private Key from the Hardware Crypto Module through means of a key destruction ceremony performed by the CA and witnessed and signed-off by at least two Trusted Roles. 

Author: Certificate lifetime was discussed as no longer a concern for this ballot. Closing this comment. I will float an email to the list for an effective date, and how to handle existing SubCAs and keys

The validity period for a Code Signing Certificate issued to a Subscriber or Signing Service MUST NOT exceed 39 months.

> The Timestamp Certificate validity period MUST NOT exceed 135 months. The Timestamp Certificate Key Pair MUST meet the requirements in [Section 6.1.5](#615-key-sizes). The Timestamp Certificate Private Key usage period is no greater than 15 months from the date of Timestamp Certificate issuance. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Timestamp Certificate validity period MUST NOT exceed 135 months. The Timestamp Certificate Key Pair MUST meet the requirements in [Section 6.1.5](#615-key-sizes). The CA or Timestamp Authority SHALL NOT use a Private Key associated with a Timestamp Certificate more than 15 months after the `notBefore` date of a Timestamp Certificate. 

```

The Timestamp Authority MUST ensure that clock synchronization is maintained when a leap second occurs. A Timestamp Authority MUST synchronize its timestamp server at least every 24 hours with a UTC(k) time source. The timestamp server MUST automatically detect and report on clock drifts or jumps out of synchronization with UTC. Clock adjustments of one second or greater MUST be auditable events. Any changes to its signing process MUST be an auditable event.

> The Timestamp Authority SHALL reject timestamp requests signed with SHA-1 digest algorithms.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Timestamp Authority SHALL reject timestamp requests containing a `MessageImprint` calculated using the SHA-1 digest algorithm.
```
